Story Recapped here.
Today, I'm going to explain a drama, horror,
and mystery film called "The Witch."
Spoilers ahead!
Watch out and take care.
In 17th century New England, a Puritan family
of six is put on trial after the townsfolk
accused the father, William, of speaking ill
of God.
William disagrees with their beliefs and brands
the community as false Christians.
Because of the dispute, William and his wife,
Katherine, their children, Thomasin, Caleb,
Mercy, and Jonas, are banished from the town.
They begin their journey immediately and ride
on a small carriage to look for a new home.
Thomasin looks back at the village that she's
known all her life.
The family quickly finds a new home by the
woods and shows gratitude to the Lord by praying
on their knees.
They build a farm near the secluded forest
to move on and start anew.
Katherine bears her fifth child named Samuel,
whom Thomasin takes care of often.
Thomasin is still loyal to her faith as she
prays regularly and repents on her sins.
On a typical day, Thomasin plays peekaboo
with Samuel to entertain him.
Initially, the baby giggles as his big sister
play with him.
All of a sudden, after she opens her hands,
baby Samuel disappears.
Thomasin’s face fills with fear as she calls
for him and runs into the woods.
A woman dressed in a red cloak runs across
the forest, holding Samuel.
The stolen baby is now in the hands of a stranger,
whose intentions toward him are sinister.
A wrinkled hand strokes the baby’s body
before pointing a knife at him.
Moments later, with the full moon in sight,
the woman pounds Samuel’s remains and rubs
the blood all over her body, completing her
ritual.
Back at home, the abduction of Samuel devastates
the whole family, especially Katherine.
She spends most of her time crying and grieving.
Caleb notices Thomasin having a bad dream
as she twitches while sleeping.
He wakes her up to calm her down.
A lot of them believe that a wolf is responsible
for taking the baby.
William explains to Caleb that there is no
hope for them to find Samuel alive because
several days have passed.
Both of them decide to hunt and enter the
woods.
However, Caleb questions why they should enter
the forest when William says that it is forbidden.
He says that their crops are not that great,
and their harvest cannot last the winter.
At this point, they must catch their food
if they cannot grow it.
They proceed to hunt while the rest of the
family stays at home.
Thomasin overhears her mother weeping in the
room while saying a prayer out loud.
She observes her from the door and can't help
feeling guilty.
Back in the woods, William lectures his son
about spiritual matters as they go deeper
into the woods.
After setting a trap, Caleb questions whether
the unbaptized soul of Samuel could reach
heaven or not.
William refuses to talk about him anymore,
but Caleb persists.
William calmly explains that some things remain
unknown as they are only humans.
He then reveals that he could afford their
hunting equipment after he traded Katherine's
prized silver cup.
He warns the young boy that he must not speak
a word about it to his siblings.
They spot a rabbit and hurriedly load the
rifle.
William aims it at the rabbit, but unfortunately,
the recoil from the shot gets him in the eye,
sending the rabbit away.
On the farm, the twins play with a large black
goat that they named Black Phillip.
They are fond of the goat and even sing songs
to him.
William rushes to the farm after seeing Mercy
and Jonas playing with the Black Phillip.
He thinks that it is dangerous as its horns
could harm them.
William struggles to control the goat but
manages to cage the animal.
Katherine gets into an angry mood and starts
sermonizing everyone.
She is harsher toward Thomasin and orders
her to gather her father’s dirty clothes.
Katherine also questions William about where
he has been all day; Caleb backs him up and
says that they looked for apples to cheer
Katherine up.
She holds Caleb dearly and says that nothing
is more important to her than their safety.
Thomasin cleans her father's clothes by the
river when Caleb arrives.
He glances at his sister’s body out of curiosity,
signifying that he is about to reach manhood.
She notices her brother’s weird behavior,
but she remains unbothered.
She embraces her brother in hopes of cheering
him up.
They hear rustling noises and stand up to
check on them.
Mercy startles them by pretending to be a
witch by impersonating a witch’s voice.
She is a stubborn little girl who continually
refuses to follow Thomasin.
Mercy tells Thomasin that their mother hates
her and that it is her fault that Samuel is
gone.
The little girl also adds that she saw the
witch taking the baby away, but Caleb contradicts
the idea.
Thomasin plays along with the accusation and
starts to scare Mercy.
Thomasin says she is a witch and that she
will get Mercy if she continues to bother
her.
The little girl shrieks in fear, so Caleb
comes to her rescue.
That night, while the family prays before
their meal, they break pieces of bread for
them to share.
Katherine questions Thomasin about the disappearance
of the cup; her daughter responds that she
has not touched it.
Katherine becomes agitated, focuses her anger
on Thomasin, and suspects her to be responsible
for Samuel's disappearance.
William defends her, as he is indeed the one
responsible for the missing cup.
Thomasin heads outside to bed the sheep down.
She hears eerie noises in the dark of night,
and upon getting closer to the sheep den,
she finds the rabbit that William failed to
hunt earlier.
That night, Katherine opens up about the importance
of the silver cup to her.
She explains that it is their only substitute
if their crops continue to die.
She also adds that Thomasin has now begun
her way to womanhood.
Katherine discusses with William that they
should give Thomasin to another family, which
she overhears.
She breaks into tears while hearing their
mother have a meltdown about the problems
circulating in their family.
In the middle of the night, Caleb sneaks out
of his bed to attend to his horse.
Thomasin finds him and asks the reason behind
being up late.
He says that he will head to the forest, but
Thomasin stops him from leaving unless he
lets her tag along.
Both of them walk through the forest to check
the trap they have set and find a dead animal
attached to it.
Fowler, their dog, barks at something in the
woods.
This gets the siblings’ attention and looks
for what it is.
The same rabbit appears again, which takes
their horse into a panic.
Fowler gives a chase to the rabbit aggressively,
and Caleb follows to kill the rabbit for food.
Thomasin is left with the horse, and because
of her lack of experience in riding, she falls
to the ground, which knocks her unconscious.
The rest of the family grow worried as Thomasin
and Caleb have not returned home.
The sun is about to set, which makes the forest
much more dangerous.
Caleb loses track of his path and desperately
calls her sister.
Without any response, he prays as he walks
to find his way out.
He hears Fowler letting out a yelp from a
distance, so he follows the sound.
Caleb finds their dog dying as his intestines
are open as if a blood-thirsty creature attacked
it.
He runs out of fear that he might end up the
same as his dog.
Meanwhile, Thomasin gains consciousness and
reunites with her father, who is in search
of them.
After asking where her brother is, Thomasin
is in disbelief that he has not made his way
home.
Caleb discovers a small hut from which a beautiful
woman emerges to lure him.
She gives her a gentle kiss on the lips before
her arm becomes aged and wrinkled as she grabs
Caleb.
William takes Thomasin home, and Katherine
angrily scolds her for taking Caleb into the
woods.
He feels terrible for Thomasin, who has suffered
being on the receiving end of Katherine’s
hatred.
Because of it, he reluctantly admits that
he sold the silver cup.
He also asks forgiveness from Thomasin for
being the one to blame for everything.
The knowledge of it devastates Katherine,
so both of them argue in the rain.
The bond between Katherine and Thomasin is
now restored; she becomes more affectionate
toward her daughter.
Later that night, as the storm rages, Thomasin
discovers Caleb outside the home, naked, incoherent,
and mysteriously ill.
She runs to his rescue and calls for help
from their parents.
Caleb becomes bedridden and is unable to move
of his own will.
They all become worried that evil is overtaking
them, so they perform a ritual that includes
extracting blood from Caleb to offer to God.
To release his anger, William cuts wood in
the middle of the night despite the rain.
The following day, the twins converse with
Black Phillip.
Mercy tells Thomasin that according to the
goat, wickedness fills her.
Mercy and Jonas continue to accuse Thomasin
of being a witch, and they become more stubborn.
Thomasin attempts to milk the nanny goat,
but it only produces blood instead of milk.
She starts trembling and kicks the bucket
of blood out of fear, which scares the twins
as much.
Katherine prays over Caleb’s body as William
enters the room.
She persuades him that it might be witchcraft,
but he dismisses the idea.
He plans on going back to town to find Thomasin
a family and bring Caleb to the doctors.
Katherine breaks down once again because of
the gravity of their situation.
While gathering the harvested crops, the family's
girls hear a scream from inside their house.
They rush inside to check on Caleb, only to
find him chanting some prayer.
He twitches on the bed and expresses his pain.
He shouts random words while in pain.
He becomes unresponsive and vomits a whole
apple with a single bite taken out of it.
Katherine says that her son is bewitched.
The twins point out that Thomasin is responsible
for the curse as they run to their mother.
Mercy and Jonas talk about evidence that concludes
that Thomasin is a witch, but she denies it
desperately.
The twins persuade Katherine, so she keeps
her distance from her daughter.
To prove that she is not a witch, William
makes Thomasin kneel in front of him to ask
about her faith.
They all pray together as a family when suddenly,
the twins claim to forget the proper words
of their prayer and become unresponsive.
When Thomasin orders them to pray, the twins
fall to the floor and twitch in great pain.
Caleb gasps for air and starts saying, “she
desires my blood.”
Mercy and Jonas say the exact phrase as well.
Caleb speaks as if he accepts that he is about
to meet God, and he starts to pray passionately
before dying with a smile on his face.
Katherine tries to retrieve him, but hope
is gone.
She has lost another child once again and
cries excessively.
She shouts at Thomasin, which makes her run
outside.
Confusion fills her mind as she has no idea
what she did wrong.
William runs after her to provide her solace.
Moments later, he expresses his suspicions
about her being involved in witchcraft.
Thomasin feels betrayed and lost because no
one believes her.
They both continue to argue as Thomasin points
out William's sins.
She states that perhaps the twins made a demonic
pact with Black Phillip whom they talk to
all day and make songs about.
She adds that the devil takes the shape of
a he-goat, and Black Phillip is Lucifer.
Because of confusion on who the real culprit
among the family is, William locks his remaining
children in the goat house.
Thomasin denies being a witch, but Mercy and
Jonas do not answer when she asks if they
have spoken with Black Phillip.
William and Katherine bury Caleb by their
house, and she gives him a last embrace.
Thomasin hears William break down at night
and confess to God that he has been prideful
and made his family leave their village out
of stubbornness.
As Katherine prepares for bed, she gets a
vision of Caleb sitting on a chair while holding
Samuel.
She approaches the ghost of her children and
takes the baby for her to breastfeed.
Meanwhile, the children awaken to see an older
woman drinking milk from the nanny goat.
They look at her intently, but she turns
to attack the twins.
The three of them let out a loud shriek upon
the event.
Katherine continues to feed Samuel back in
the house, but in reality, a crow is pecking
on her chest as she hallucinates seeing her
dead children.
She wakes up the following day with bloodstains
on her dress.
As William awakens, he finds the whole farm
in ruins.
The goats have been slaughtered, and the twins
seem to have vanished.
William looks at Thomasin with confusion as
she is the only one surviving.
Out of nowhere, Black Phillip attacks him
by charging its horns on his torso.
William grabs an ax; he seems ready to fight,
but he then drops it, allowing Black Phillip
to charge at him once again and knock him
into a pile of logs that crushes him.
Thomasin’s father is killed before her eyes.
She slowly approaches William to take one
last look at his lifeless body.
Katherine grabs her by the hair and calls
her the devil.
Katherine is completely unhinged and blames
Thomasin for everything the tragedies that
happened to their family.
Katherine accuses her of trying seduction
on William and Caleb.
She brings Thomasin to the ground and beats
her recklessly.
In self-defense, Thomasin grabs a hook to
fight back.
This causes a wound on Katherine’s forehead,
so she strangles Thomasin, trying harder to
get rid of her.
Out of desperation, she uses the hook to attack
Katherine once again, which kills her instantly.
She embraces her mother despite every pain
that she has caused.
She realizes that she is all alone, with no
family or friends left.
Thomasin gathers the courage to stand up and
enter the house.
She removes her clothes that are full of bloodstains
and takes a moment to let everything sink
in.
Thomasin hears chiming sounds, so she follows
them, which leads her to the stable.
She conjures Black Phillip to speak to her,
to which it asks what she desires.
It continues to ask her if she would want
to “live deliciously.”
Black Phillip turns into a tall man and commands
Thomasin to remove her clothes and put her
name in a book that appears before her.
Thomasin and Black Phillip make their way
to the woods, where chanting noises lead her
to a group of witches.
They gather around a fire and begin to levitate.
A happy and laughing Thomasin joins them in
their ritual, ascending above the woods.
Finally, Thomasin feels a sense of belonging.